Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to learn about
Break and Continue - two more Python keywords
that do some very interesting things when you put them
inside a loop.
Imagine you've got a list of car productions.
So, most of them are ok, but every now and then
you get a faulty one.
So, what we want to do is, we want to show the user
that we are ok with most cars, but when we encounter
a faulty one, we want to stop the production line entirely
so that we have time to investigate.
What we will do is we will, first of all,
iterate over this list.
Now we can print something like "This car is ."
So this will just print each status -
"This car is ok, this car is ok, this car is okay,
This car is faulty, this car is ok, this car is ok."
Now, we've got a problem,
which is that, in our production line, or in,
in our imaginary production line,
when we encounter a faulty car,
we cannot continue processing cars.
So we have to stop the loop when that happens.
Well, that's where the break keyword comes into play.
Inside our for loop, we will have an if statement,
and that will check if the status is faulty.
Now, do note something very important,
you've got a lot of spaces now because you need four spaces
to tell Python that this line here is inside the for loop,
and then you need an extra four spaces to tell it that it's
inside the if statement.
So you've got eight spaces in total in this line here
because it's both inside the for loop and the if statement.
So if we encounter a car whose status is faulty,
we're going to print "Stopping the production line!"
And then, we're going to break.
What this means is "stop the loop",
so because we are inside a loop here, break will stop it.
No more iterations of the loop.
We will simply continue from after the loop onwards.
Let's run this.
And you'll see that we get "This car is ok, This car is ok,
This car is ok", and then "Stopping the production line."
So break is useful for when you want to
terminate a loop completely.
However, let's say that instead of completely stopping
the production line, we just want to skip this car.
For example, because every time that a car is ok,
we ship it. "Shipping new car to customer!"
Every time a car is ok, we ship the new car to the customer.
So, if we run this right now, you'll see that
we get "This car is ok. Shipping new car to customer!"
"This car is ok. Shipping new car to customer!"
And again, and finally we stop the production line
because we found a faulty one.
But again, what we want to do now is,
if we find a faulty one,
we just want to skip it and ship the next one.
So, we can do that with a continue keyword.
Instead of stopping the production line,
we will type "Found faulty car, skipping...",
and then, instead of break, we will do continue.
And what this does is, it just jumps back
to the start of the loop without printing anything else,
or without running any lines of code inside this loop.
So when you encounter a continue keyword,
it just goes into the next one from the top.
So by pressing run again, you'll see that,
when we encounter the faulty car, we do not print
"This car is ok. Shipping new car to customer!"
In total, we have five shipments because we have five oks.
All right, so those are the two keywords,
and, again, when you first start learning about
a new piece of syntax like break and continue,
you may not immediately understand what it's for,
why it's useful.
But we're going to learn through examples
as we progress through the course.
So don't worry about it, thanks for joining me,
and I'll see you in the next video.